# 13.2.2

## Dictation

this meeting is for new staff and staff who have not been involved with our volunteer project yet.

So, Basically, the idea is that we allowed staff to give up some of their work time to **help on** **various** charity project to **benefit** local community.

we've been doing this for last five years, and it has been very successful.

participating doesn't necessarily involve **a** huge time commitment.

The company will **pay for** eight hours of your time.

That can be used over one or two days, or at once, or **spread** over several mouths throughout **the** year.

There are some staff who enjoy volunteering so much, they also give up their own free time for **a couple of** hours a week, it's completely up to you.

Obviously, many people have family commitments and **aren't** as available as other **members of** staff.

Feedback from staff has been overwhelmingly positive.

Because they **felt** they were doing something really useful, nearly everyone **agreed** that volunteering made them feel more motivated at work.

They also like building relationships with people in the local community, and **felt valued by them**.

**One or two** people also said it was a good thing to have **on their CVs**.

One particularly successful project last year was **the Get Working** project.

This was **aimed at** helping unemployed people in the area get back to work.

Our staff **were** able to help them improve their telephone skills, such as writing down messages and speaking with confidence to potential customers which they **have** found quite difficult.

This is **something** many employers look **for in job applicants**, and **something** we all do **without** even thinking about, every day at work.

We'**ve** got **an** exciting new project starting this year.

**Up until** now we'**ve** mainly focus on projects to do with education **and** training.

And we'**ll** continue **with** our reading project **in** schools and **our** work **with** local charities.

But we'**ve** also **agreed to** help out **on a** conservation project in **Redfern** park.

So **if any of you fancy** being outside and **getting your** hands dirty, this is **the** project for you.

I also want to mention the annual **digital** inclusion day which is coming **up** next mouth.

The aim of this is to help older people keep up with technology.

And this year, instead of hosting **the** event **in our own** training facility, we'**re using** the ICT **suite** at **Hill** collage, as it can **hold** far more people.

We'**ve** invited over sixty people from **Silver Age Community Centre** to take part, so we need a lot of volunteers to help with this event.

If you are interested in taking part, please go to the volunteering section **of our** website, and complete the relevant form.

We **won't** be **providing** any training for this, but you'll be **paired with an experienced** volunteer if you'**ve** never done **it** before.

By the way, don't forget to tell your manager about **any** volunteering **activities** you **decide** to do.

The **participants** on the Digital Inclusion Day really **benefitted**.

The majority were in **their** seventies, though some **were** younger, **and** a few were even **in their nineties**.

Quite **a** few **owned** both **a** computer and **a** mobile phone, but **these tended** to **be outdated** models.

## Vocabulary

- help on
- time commitment
- spread over
- a couple of
- motivated
- be aimed at
- to do with
- help out
- fancy
- be coming up
- suite
- feel valued
- outdated models
