# 2.13-3

## Dictation

So if you'**re one** of **those** people who hasn't **found** the perfect physical activity yet, here are **some things** to think about which might help you make **the** right decision for you.

The first question to **ask** yourself is whether you would enjoy training in **a** gym.

Many people **are** put off by the idea **of having to fit a visit** to the gym **into** their busy day.

You often have to go very early or late, as some gyms can get very crowded.

But with regular training, you'll see a big difference in a relatively short space of time.

Running has becoming **incredibly** popular in recent years.

That's probably got a lot to do with **the** facts that **it** is accessible **form of** exercise, anyone can run, even if you can only run a few meters to begin with.

But make sure you get the right shoes, it is worthy investing in a high-quality pair, and they don't come cheap.

Another great thing about running is that you can do it at **any time** of day **or** night, the only thing **that** may stop you is snow **and** ice.

Swimming is another really good way to build fitness.

What attracts many people is that you can swim in **an** indoor pool at any time of year.

On the other hand, it can be quite boring or solitary.

It's hard to **chat to** people while **you're** swimming **lengths**.

Cycling has became almost as popular as running in recent years.

That's probably because as well as improving their fitness, many people say being out **in** the fresh air area, **in a** park or **in the** countryside can be fun, provided **the conditions are** right of course, only fanatics go out **in** the **wind and** rain.

Yogas is a good choice for those **of you** looking for exercise, which **focuses** on developing both **a** healthy mind and body.

It's a good way of building strength, and with right instructor, there is less chance of hurting yourself, than with other more active sports.

But don't expect to find it easy.

It can be surprisingly challenging, especially for people who aren't very flexible.

Getting a personal trainer, it is a good way to start your fitness **programme**.

Obviously, **there** can be significantly **costs** involved.

But if you'**ve** got someone there to encourage you and help you achieve your goals, you are less likely to give up.

Make sure you get someone with recognized qualification though, or you could do yourself permanent damage.

Whatever you do, **don't join a** gym, **unless** you'**re sure you'll make** good use of it.

So many people waste lots of money by signing up **for** membership and **then** hardly ever go.

What happens to their good intentions?

I don't think people suddenly stop **caring** about improving their fitness, or decide their have more important things to do.

I think people lose interest when they don't think they're making enough process.

That's when **they give** up hope, and stop believing **they'll** ever achieve **their goals**.

Also, what people sometimes don't realize when they start, **is that it takes a lot** of determination **and** hard work to keep training week after week, and lots of people don't have that kind **of** commitment.

One thing you can do to help yourself, **is** to set a manageable goals, be realistic and don't push yourself too far.

Some people advice writing goals down, but I think it's better to have a flexible approach.

Give yourself a really nice treat, every time you reach one of your goals.

And don't get **too** upset if **you experience setbacks**, it's a journey.

There **are** bound to be **difficulties** along the way.

## Vocabulary

- be put off
- in a short space of time
- solitary
- provided that
- fanatics
- those of you
- fitness programme
- recognized qualification
- do yourself permanent damage to
- come cheap
- experience setbacks
- there are bound to be difficulties
