# 2.13-4

## Dictation

I hope you **enjoyed** the bus trip **from** the airport, we've certainly got **plenty of snow today**.

Well, you'**ve** came to New Zealand's premier snow **and ski** center.

And we've **a** whole load **of** activities **for you** during **your week here**.

Most of visitor came here for **the** cross country skiing, where you'**re on fairly flat ground** for most of **the** time, rather than going down steep mountainsides.

They're **marked trails**, but you can also leave **these**, and go **off on** your own, and that's **an** experience not be missed.

You can go **at** your **own** speed, it's great **aerobic** exercise if you really push yourself.

Or if you prefer, you can just glide **gently** alone, and enjoy the beautiful scenery.

This afternoon, you'll **be going** on the **dog-sled** trip.

You might see **our** dogs on TV, recently **racing** in winter **sled** festival.

If you want, you can have your own team for the afternoon, and learn how to drive them, following **behind our** leader on the trail.

Or if you'**d** prefer, you can just sit back **in** the sled, and enjoy the ride as a passenger.

At the weekend, we have the team **rely** event, you'**re** all **welcome to** join in.

We have **a** local school coming alone, and a lot of teachers are taking part too.

Participation rather than winning is the main focus, and there is a medal for everyone who takes part.

Participants are **in** teams **of** two to four, and each team must **complete** four **laps** of the course.

**For your final expedition**, you'**ll head off to Mount Frenner wearing** a pair **of special snow** shoes, which allow you to walk on the top of the snow.

This is an area where **miners once searched** for gold, although there are very few **traces of their** work **left** now.

With the snow **melts in** summer, the mountain **slops are carpeted in flowers and** plants.

It's a long ascent, though not too steep, and **walkers** generally take a couple of days to get the summit and return.

You'll spend **the** night **in our hut** half way **up** the mountain.

That's included in your package for the stay.

It's got cooking facilities, firewood and water for drinking.

For washing, we recommend you use **melted** snow though, to conserve supplies.

We can take your luggages up on **our snowmobile** for you, for just **ten dollars a** person.

The hut has cooking facilities, so you can make hot meals in the evening and morning, but you need to take your own food.

The **weather** on the Mount Frenner can be very **stormy**.

In that case, stay in the hut, generally the **storms** don't last long.

Don't **stress about getting** back **here** to **the** center **in time** to catch the airport bus, they'**ll** probably not be running anyway. 

We do have an emergency **locator beacon** in the hut, but only **use that** if **it's a real** emergency like **if** someone'**s** ill or injured.

This trail's been designed to **give first-timers an** experience they'**ll** enjoy regardless of **their age or** skill.

You follow a steep valley looking right down **on** the river below, scary.

But if you fully **mastered** the techniques for hills, it's great fun.

Stony Trail is a good choice **once you've** got **a** general idea **of the basics**.

There are one or two tricky selections, but nothing too challenging.

**There's a shelter** half way, where you can sit **and** take a break, and enjoy the afternoon's sunshine.

This starts **off** following **a** gentle river valley, but the last part is quite **exposed**, so the snow conditions can be challenging.

## Vocabulary

- premier
- a whole load of
- fairly
- mountainsides/mountain slopes
- relay
- medal
- laps of the course
- head off to
- traces
- be carpeted
- summit
- hut
- conserve
- stormy
- stress about
- locator beacon
- technique
- valley
- start off/set out
- exposed

## Keywords

- premier
    - earliest
- skill
    - experts