# 3.12-1

## Dictation

How library **have changed over the** centuries, for instance, so, how different countries organize them.

Maybe we should concentrate on this country, **and** try **and relate the** changes in libraries to external developments, like the fact that far more people can read than **a century** ago, and **that the** local population may speak lots of different languages.

We could include something about changes **in the** source **of funding too**.

Now lots of books **have** been digitalized, people can access them from their own **computers** at home.

But digitalized books **that** are available online for free are **mostly out of** copyright, aren't they?

Any I find it hard to concentrate **when I'm** reading **a long** text **on a screen**.

I'**d much** rather read a physical book, and **it** takes **longer to** read on a screen.

Some **have** already **become centres** where community activities take place, **like** local clubs meeting there.

I'**d like to** think so, and **that they're** still be serving **their** traditional function, but i'm not so sure.

What I'm afraid what happen is that **books and** magazines will all disappear **and there'll be rows and rows of** computers.

They won't **look** anything **like the** libraries **we're used to**.

Why don't we make an **in-depth study** of our local **public library** as background **to** our paper?

And find out **whether the library has its own** budget or **if that's controlled by** the local council.

Like what measures **does the library** take **to ensure** their safety.

They'**d** need **floor covering that aren't slippery**, and emergency **exists, for instance**.

Well, next **to it**, they'**ve** got a diary of **a** well-know politician **from the** late **nineteenth** century.

## Vocabulary

- obsolete
- out of copyright
- on a screen
- implication
- in-depth
- raise issues
- work out
- employment law
- floor covering
- slippery
- an archive
- fancy doing

## Keywords in Questions

- be reflected
    - relate
- old
    - obsolete
    - not up-to-date
    - not latest
- no longer contain
    - disappear