# 3.13-2

## Dictation

Now you **wanted** to **consult me** about your class presentation on nanotechnology, you'**re** due to **give it in** next week, aren't you?

That's right. And I'm really struggling.

I **chose** the topic because I didn't know much about it **and wanted** to learn more.

But now I'**ve** read some much about it, in the way there is too much to say.

I **could** talk for much longer than the twenty minutes I've been allocated.

Should I assume the other students don't know much, and give them a kind of general introduction?

Or should I try **and** make them share **my fascination** with a particular aspect.

You could do either, but you'**ll** need to have **it** clear **in** your own mind.

Then I think I'll give **an** overview.

OK, now one way **of** approaching this is to work through **developments** in chronological order.

On the other hand, you could talk about the **numerous ways that** nanotechnology is being applied.

You **mean things** like thin film on camera display to make **them water-repellent**, and **additives** to make motorcycle **helmets** stronger and lighter.

Exactly.

Or another way **would** be to focus on **its impact** in **one** particular area, **say medicine**, or **space exploration**.

That **would make** it easier to focus.

Perhaps I should do that.

I think that **would** be a good idea.

Right.

How important is it to include **slides** in the presentation?

They **aren't** essential by any **means**.

And **there's a danger of tailoring** what you say to fit whatever **slides you can find**.

**While** it can be good to include slides, you could end up spending too long looking for suitable ones.

You might **find it better** to leave them out.

I see.

Another thing I was wondering about **was** how to start.

I know **presentations** often begin with fist I am going to talk about this, and then I'll talk about that. But I thought about asking **the audience** what they know about nanotechnology.

That would be fine if you **had an hour or two** to the presentation, but you might find **that** you **can't** do anything with the **answers** you get.

**And it** simply **eats into** the short time **that's** available.

So maybe I should mention **a** particular way that nanotechnology is used to focus people's attention.

That sounds **sensible**.

What **do** you think I should do next?

I really have **to plan** the presentation today **and** tomorrow.

Well, initially, I think you should ignore all **the notes you've made**, take **a** small piece of paper, and write **a** single short sentence, **that ties together** the whole presentation.

It can be something as simple as, nanotechnology is already improving **our lives**.

**Then start** planning **the content** around that.

You can always modify **that sentence later** if you need to.

OK. Now let's think about actual **giving** the presentation.

You've only given one before if I remember correctly, about **an** experiment you'**d** been involved **in**.

That's right.

It was pretty rubbish.

Let's say it was **better in some respects** than **in** others.

With regard to **the** structure, I felt **that** you **ended** rather **abruptly**, without **rounding** it off.

Be careful not to do that in next week's presentation.

OK.

And you made very little eye **contact** with the audience, because you were looking down **at** your notes most of time.

You need to **be looking** at the audience, and only occasionally glaceing **at** your notes.

Your body language was a little odd.

Every time you **showed a** slide you **turned your** back **on** the audience, **so** you could look at it.

You should **have been** looking at your laptop.

**And you kept scratching** your head, so I found myself wondering when you were next going to do that, instead of listening what you were saying.

What do you think **of** the language?

I knew **that** not everyone was familiar with the subject, so I tried to make it as simple as I could.

Yes. That **came** across.

You used **a** few words that **are** specific **to** the field, but you always **explained** what **the** meant.

So the audience wouldn't have any difficulty understanding.

I must say the **handouts** you prepared were well **through** out.

They were a good summary **of your** presentation, which people would be able to **refer to** later on.

## Vocabulary

- consult
- fascination with
- in chronological order
- numerous
- thin film
- water repellent
- additives
- medicine
- space exploration
- by any means
- tailor
- audience
- eat into
- sensible
- work through
- give a presentation
- in some respects
- with regard to
- abruptly
- round it off
- scratch
- come across
- be specific to the field
- through out
- refer to
