# 3.13-3

## Dictation

You want to see me about your textile design project.

I've been looking at how range of natural dyes can be used in color fabric, like cotton and **wool**.

Well, I got a lot of **useful** ideas from **the** museum, you know, **at that** exhibition **of** textiles.

But I've always been interested in anything to do with color.

Years ago, I went to a carpet shop with my parents, **when we were** on holiday in Turkey, and I remember all **the** amazing colors.

They might not all **have** been nature dyes.

Maybe not, but for the project, I decided to follow it up.

And I found a great book about a botanic garden in California, **that specializes in** plants used for dyes.

First I **couldn't** decide **on** my variables.

I was going to just look at one type of fiber, for example, like cotton.

And see how different types **of** dyes effected **it**?

**Various types**, including some **that weren't** natural, for comparison.

Yes, I'**d** thought it'**d** just **be** a matter of tea spoon **or so of dye**.

And actually **that wasn't the case** at all.

When I **rinsed the** material, the color **was** just washed away.

I thought if it's **a** legal food coloring, it must be safe.

Well it can occasionally cause allergic **reactions, I believe**.

But you might find it's not permanent when **it's used** as a dye, **a few washes and it** is gone.

When I chop up beetroot **to eat**, I **always end up with** bright **red** hands.

But **the wool end up just a** sort of water cream shade.

It comes from **a** shellfish, and **it** was wore in ancient times.

But only by important people, as it was so rare.

It **fell out of using** centuries ago, **though** one researcher **managed** to get hold **of some** recently.

Yes. I didn't actually make that. I **didn't have time to start crushing up** insects to get **the** red color, and **anyway** they're **not** available here.

But it costs a fortune.

Yes, it's very effective, but that's **precisely** why **it's** not used **as a** dye.

Apparently, you can allow iron **to** rust when it'**s in** contact **with** the fabric, and **that colors** it.

You have to be careful **as** the metal can actually affect the fabric, so you can't expect to get **a lot** of wear **out of fabrics treated** in this way.

## Vocabulary

- wool
- follow up
- botanic garden
- specialize in
- decide on
- comparison
- or so of
- be the case
- chop up
- a whole pile of
- rinse
- food coloring
- fall out of use
- get hold of
- ingest
- crush up
- precisely why
- subtle

## Keywords in Questions

- surprised
    - past tense
    - actually
    - wasn't the case

- expensive
    - cost a fortune

- damage ...
    - affect ...